Doug O'Neill horse trainer won the
Kentucky Derby and Preakness love that
name all have another Doug joins us now
Doug what does all this mean can you can
you whip a horse too much uh you know a
good morning animal you know I it's
one of those situations were a race like
the Derby you got a hundred and seventy
thousand people going crazy on the
inside and outside of the horse you've
got horses who have nearly 360-degree
vision so I think Victor any as you
watch replay you could tell American
Pharoah was trying to get out a little
bit price from all the noise inside
outside of them and I think he strictly
other as a jock you know race like that
you're just trying to keep the horse
attention on on running and I didn't see
anything wrong with the ride and and and
the horses respondent from from the
right so I didn't say anything wrong
there what is the purpose of the whip
you know it's really just for that just
keeping their mind on their task and and
just you know keeping their attention
now but it's not pain but they is it
more of a timing or reminder but it's
not is it inflicting pain the other
website evolved into what they are now
which this much softer kinder and you
lack someone with it and it wouldn't
hurt them so it's really just the sound
and it's almost like a coach getting a
kid you know a football player in the
helmet you know just kind of more of a
shocking attention-grabbing thing than
than anything painful or hurting so why
would this bring about the potential of
an inquiry well I think now with social
media you know the address you know you
get a few people start worrying about
things are concerned and you know and we
do have to be concerned about the public
perception of whips but you know I think
as people get more knowledge they'll
realize that you know that there can be
a follow if a horse didn't responding or
horses backing out of a race
Ryder still hitting a beam with the
softer kinder whips that's a foul
there's no need to do that but if a
horse burrs responding or horse needs
some direction from them shifting from
noise or something new you know then
they're perfectly they make all the
sense in the world and I talked to a
couple different jockeys this morning
who said it's really a key with these
cells and Found animals to keep their
mind you know to task it you need to
every now and then you know even just
flag them with it and there's no pain
inflicted American Pharoah obviously the
overwhelming favorite in the Preakness
with only eight horses in a on a
racetrack that can get a little too
tight there but leaving from the number
one hole here handicap this if you can
Doug well it's um you know like Bob
Baffert it says that if you're gonna
grab the one all you'd rather Nate are
thrilled in a 90 Northfield but it
phillies he's in a spot where he's going
to have to be asked earlier in the race
and he was in the Derby be breaking from
the 18-hole he was able to kind of just
me and her up there and they had a great
spot knew they will attack when he
wanted to work you can be pushed all the
way so I think you he's vulnerable he
ran a really hard run race there and I
think Gary Stevens on firing line who's
drawn all the way on the outside the
Preakness he's going to be able to do
what American Pharoah did he can be able
to break settle watch what's going on
inside of them and then when he calls on
firing line I think he's the horse to
beat yeah I could see that but it you
know what when you have a Kentucky Derby
winner it's those two weeks before the
Preakness where you didn't have a
Kentucky Derby winner be you're not sure
how what to do before right like you
have that two-week period where you go
okay women do i do anything different
than i would have done if i didn't win
the Derby yeah but first imma Callahan
who's a young trainer but a really solid
whoreson you know I think he's on the
right move because it's tempting to
overwork your horse in those two weeks
and after the derby your horses this
soul said he's so ready that you really
don't need to do a whole lot of than
just normal gallops in between the two
races and you know I love seeing sign
and not put in a work because I think
that would have worked against Amon and
that next time is confident his pulp and
you know all three of those were
surround 123 I think are going to run
one two three again this week in
different orders though and dal 3m have
great jockeys and give me a fun race to
watch but if I bet a few bucks but it'll
be on Stephens the toughest track though
to handicap of the Triple Crown races
would be once i would say belmont i
would say the belmont just because you
got a mile and a half know these horses
ever gone a mile and a half you've got a
they call it the Big Sandy because it's
a big it's a real deep sandy surface
that's real demanding and I think that's
probably the most challenging of the
three but you know the Derby is right up
there too because you got a big field
big crowd a lot of chaos and some horses
really fresh from it and some really
thrive on it and you just never know did
you talk to all have another before the
Derby or the Preakness or the bellman I
did actually we did here we went up to
jeff ruby's and had a quick little meal
the night before which was ice and now
he had a team face on and it was
something that even us we school them a
couple times but you know unless you
still in the day before an oak say when
there's a lot of people you really never
know and I didn't want to take a chance
of schooling on my note saying him
getting too anxious and leaving his race
that day so we kind of went in cold like
everyone else did and fortunately he
held it like like the pro that he turned
out to be but can you tell when a horse
doesn't want to run on that day well I
mean if you get to the barn and he
hasn't cleaned up all his nightly feet
that's a sign you know and you're
walking over to that to the paddock with
the roar of the crowd and he's fretting
and starting to sweat and lather up
that's a bad sign do horses throw up
they don't throw up now they don't
regurgitate so that's that the trainers
and owners do seven on and john kieffer
known to do it every now and then too
well they they may do it to make weight
did you throw up before the any of these
Triple Crown races you can tell on the
pictures of me Blackie I would ever
keep it all in its Mike what was a
better party for you the Kentucky Derby
of the Preakness after you want Oh the
Preakness because now you go into
Baltimore which is the city other than a
few weeks ago but it's the funnest city
around and going in there the Derby
winner you know the people at Pimlico
just roll out the red carpet they really
take care of everybody and we had so
much fun there so i think the the
Baltimore trip will forever be inked in
my mind is that the most fun trip I've
ever been on where's all have another he
is in Japan Aniki service the service is
about a hundred and fifty hundred fifty
mares a year I bet gig how much per I
think I think us if you're talking to us
I think it's over well over a hundred
thousand dollars per mayor well now that
is just insanity it's about you make a
mess that's big money but but is what
does he do on a day off if I mean if you
think about it that would be like a good
day off of what he does for his job yeah
I don't know yeah you wonder I me must
break to the other side probably are
getting 40 or 50 American I like listen
I saw this chefs not last night was
unbelievable does he have it like a like
a velvet like a smoking blanket that
they put over him like Hugh Hefner where
you so like prance around it's fine more
like satin whatever is whatever his hip
in Japan believe me he's wearing it I
can tell you that oh good to visit with
you is always dug you're the best Anka
thanks Dan X buddy let's Doug O'Neill